http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=1636

06 Sep

MOU signed to recruit trained employees to the CEB.

As a solution to the present shortage of technically skilled workers to the power and energy sector, which had been plagued by union protests and strikes during the recent past, the CEB plans on recruiting youth to the CEB and providing them the required electrical and technical training.
Therefore an MOU was signed on Thursday between the Ministry of Power and Energy, the Ministry of Youth Services and Skills Development and the CEB at the Ministry of Youth Services and Skills Development with regard to the commencement of training of youth in the field of electrical and technical services, under the patronage of the minister of power and energy Patali Champika Ranawaka and the minister of youth affairs and skills development Dallas Alahapperuma.
M.P.C. Fernando Secretary to the Ministry of Power and Energy and K.A. Tillakaratne the secretary to the Ministry of Youth Services and Skills Development signed the MOU on behalf of the two ministries.
The first batch of 468 trainees who were recruited yesterday will undergo a year of training under the ministry of youth affairs, and subsequent to being recruited into the CEB workforce they will undergo a further two years of training.
Around 2457 youth from the areas of Colombo, Baticaloa, Anuradhapura and Matara had applied for the program, while 468 of them were selected for the first batch.
Addressing the gathering the minister of power and energy Patali Champika Ranawaka said that if the state service is to be made efficient and productive, priority must be given to skill and talent. We will implement a plan of identifying future management leaders for the state sector at school level, and mould them into efficient personnel. I am pleased that the power and energy sector has been able to be part of this initiative, he said.
Also speaking on the occasion the minister of youth and skills development Dallas Alahapperuma said that it had taken around 100 years for the technical field to reach the rural areas. Although the first technical collage was esdtablished in the country in 1893, these technical schools reached the villages only in 1996. Youth empowerment should take place irrespective of political, religious or social affiliations. It is commendable that a leading state organisation such as the ministry of power and energy has volunteered to offer training to the youth of the country, with the aim of strengthening the government sector, he added.
