http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=1956

18 Jun

Minister urges everyone to make their home a power station and become power and energy ministers for a brighter future

The minister of power and energy Patali Champika Ranawaka said that every citizen in this country has contributed even in a small way toward power conservation. Last year the daily power generation capacity stood at between 1900 to 2100 MW. From then to now 250,000 new subscribers have been added to the consumer list. However it is praiseworthy that in spite of the additional number of consumers, the daily power consumption had remained at 1950 MW. It was due to the committed staff of the CEB and the conservation efforts of the general public that this feat has been accomplished, said Minister Ranawaka.
The minister visited the Kegalle district today (13) with a consumer base of around 100,000 in order to declare open several consumer services centres and electrical engineers offices for the convenience of the general public.
Accordingly a consumer service centre built by the CEB at a cost of Rs. 1.2 million in the Morontota area targeting a consumer base of around 11,000 in the Kegalle district was declared open by the minister. Meanwhile the consumer service centre operated thus far under minimal facilities was also renovated at a cost of Rs. 2.5 million for the convenience of around 8000 consumers in the Kegalle district. The electrical engineers office in the Mawanella area at a cost of Rs. 3.5 million for the benefit of around 50,000 consumers and the Hemmanagama consumer service centre built at a cost of Rs. 1.2 million benefiting around 6000 families in the area was declared open by the minister.
Addressing the gathering the minister said that the power and energy ministry has spend double the samurdhi funds as power concessions. He said that concessions totalling 07 billion rupees, 17 billion for those who consume less than 120 units has been granted. The CEB is committed to providing a quality service to the consumers, while it is the duty of everyone to conserve electricity, and set an example to the rest of the world said the minister.
Senior minister Athauda Seneviratne and several local politicians also participated in this event
