http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=2033

17 May

Minister Ranawaka says Allegations that Sri Lanka has the highest electricity charges is totally false.

Refuting allegations that Sri Lanka has the highest charges for electricity in the Asian region Minister of Power and Energy Patali Champika Ranawaka said that the claims are totally incorrect.
He said that Sri Lanka has the lowest power generation and transmission wastage in south Asia. He said that Sri Lanka is one of the only countries in the region that has provided electricity supply round the clock to over 92% of its population, and also the lowest tariff rates for electricity. He made these statements at an energy conservation seminar at the Finance ministry on Tuesday (15).
The minister added that in Tamil Nadu low income families using less that 30 units of power, have to pay Rs. 5.62 per unit (in Sri Lankan currency), while in Sri Lanka inclusive of the fuel surcharge we have to pay only Rs. 5.00 per unit.
In Chennai they impose a daily power cut of two hours, while in rural areas power cuts are experienced for between 08  12 hours, while industries have to close for two days a week. He said that in comparison industrialists and domestic consumers in Sri Lanka enjoy electricity round the clock.
Last year The CEB had provided electricity concessions of Rs. 17 Billion to low income families and 07 billion for industrialists totaling Rs. 24 billion. This he said was over the total Rs. 17 billion operational loss.
He added that efforts to construct a coal power station since 1988 was postponed until 2006 due to political wrangling, and said that both power stations that generate electricity at low cost namely Lakwijaya in Puttlam and the Upper Kothmale power plant were both constructed during the tenure of president Rajapaksa.
He further added that it is a joke that the same people that refrained from constructing power stations and opted to purchase power from private sources at exorbitant rates, while imposing seven hour power cuts daily, are the ones talking about power bills today.
The minister said that it was the UNP regime that increased the electricity rates by 21% ( from 17 cents to Rs. 03.76) during their tenure between 1977  1994 having hydro power capabilities.
He said that therefore it is a total lie that Sri Lanka has the highest charges for electricity. On the contrary Sri Lanka is better than the countries that use nuclear power, those using low quality coal and countries that have oil reserves.
The minister added that currently due to the lack of rains almost 77% of power requirement is generated through thermal sources, while adding that by 2014 when the total construction of the coal power plant is completed this situation will be sorted out.
