http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=2102

01 Mar

New electricity network for the city of Colombo; power restoration in just 7 seconds after disruption

Taking on the responsibility of providing uninterrupted electricity to Colombo, which is being transformed into a picturesque city, a new electricity distribution development program was inaugurated on Wednesday by the deputy minister of Power and Energy Premalal Jayasekera.
The old equipment used in the outdoor switching centre was replaced with a new insulated indoor switching centre, while new equipment and a switch board was installed at the Kolonnawa switching centre. Underground cables of 132 kv from Kelanitissa to the Kotahena primary substation spanning 02 km, and 6.7 km from the Kolonnawa switching centre to the Kotahena primary substation was also installed. 38 underground cable distribution sub stations of 132 kv spanning a distance of 6.7 km, low voltage underground cables spanning 08 km, 72 distribution panels and a 16 MVA transformer was installed. This will enable power restoration in just 07 seconds after a power failure.
Due to the establishment of this new insulated indoor switching centre, it will prevent lightening strikes. Local engineers together with electrical engineering specialists from Japan and Germany have succeeded in completing this project in two years. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) provided Rs. 5959 million while the CEB invested Rs. 6097 million, reaching a total of Rs. 12,452 million.
Expressing his views on this occasion minister of Power and Energy Patali Champika Ranawaka said that just as the electrical network in the Colombo city had been renovated, the rest of the country will also be upgraded. Currently local electrical engineers have commenced programs in Kiribathgoda as an initial step. He said that the power and energy sector is facing a huge crisis, therefore setting an example to the rest of the country the ministry from the upper most management positions have pledged to reduce their power expenditure by 10%. Within the next two years this will make a significant difference, he added.
The Japanese Ambassador Nobuhito Hobo, the deputy minister of power and energy Premalal Jayasekera and many CEB officials participated in this ceremony.
