http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=2434

10 Jun

The New CEB Chairman, General Manager and Director Board Commence Duties.

Subsequent to the voluntary resignation of the CEB Chairman and the appointed Board of Directors, the new Chairman and Board of Directors commenced their official duties in the presence of the Minister of Power and Energy Patali Champika Ranawaka at the auspicious time this morning. The Ministry of Power and Energy stated that this is the first instance in the history of the establishment where a Chairman, General Manager and Board of Directors have assumed duties at the same time.
AccordinglyProfessor Abeywickrema assumed duties as the new chairman. He is an Applied Science Graduate of the Sri Jayawardanepura University. Having obtained his BSc degree from the Mahidol University in Bangkok, he obtained his PHD from the Liverpool University in England. Having served at the Head of the Ragama Medical faculty (affiliated to the Kelaniya University) Parasite Research Unit, andMolecular medical scienceresearch he also headed the Central Environmental Authority and the Atomic Energy Authority.
Meanwhile Anura Wijepala assumed duties as the new deputy chairman. He obtained his Degree in Electrical Engineering at the Moratuwa University. He has worked during the past 30 years at many organisations in the engineering field. Mr. Wijepala has also worked as a senior lecturer at the Moratuwa University Engineering faculty in 2005.
Furthermore Mr. Nihal Wickremasuriya who was also nominated by the Minister of Power and Energy assumed duties this afternoon. He graduated as an Electrical Engineer from the Moratuwa University in 1976 with a B.Sc Honours Degree in the field of Electrical Power Engineering.He obtained his Post Graduate qualification of Master of Engineering in the field of New and Renewable Energy Technology from the Asian Institute of technology in 1983. He has also obtained a post graduate diploma in Business and Finance Administration conducted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Sri Lanka in 1999. In 1977 he had joined the CEB as an Electrical Engineer and has held several positions within the CEB as Chief Engineer, Deputy General Manager and Additional General Manager. .
Meanwhile the new working director Pasan Gunasekera also assumed duties before the minister today. Pasan Gunasekera who is a supreme court lawyer, passed out in 1987. He was also the Director General of the Central Environment Authority.
While the Board of Directors assumed their duties in the presence of the deputy minister of Power and Energy Premalal Jayasekera, Ministry Advisor K.K.Y.W Perera, and a group of senior officials of the Ministry of Power and Energy and the CEB, Ranjith Lakshman Wijewardane assumed duties as the new Chairman of the Atomic Energy Authority at theauspicioustime this morning as well. He has obtained his degree at the Peradeniya University, and obtained his doctorate at the state University. Mr. Wijewardane has served at both universities as a lecturer.
Minister Ranawaka addressing the gathering said that he hoped all appointed heads will function to the best of their abilities to rid the CEB of corruption and malpractice.
