http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=2459

28 Apr

Measures taken to recruit National level Athletes to the CEB

The Minister of Power and Energy Patali Champika Ranawaka stated that While the CEB is in a stable footing both financially and technologically, steps have been taken to uplift the field of Art and Sports as well.. The Minister made these comments addressing the Press briefing at the Ministry Auditorium today (28-04-11) to announce the recruitment of Athletes to the CEB in a bid to assist them financially to uplift their abilities and talents.
Addressing the Gathering Minister Patali Champika Ranawaka said:
The CEB after identifying the sporting abilities of individual athletes hopes to uplift their financial status by providing them employment opportunities. Thus enhancing the possibility of these athletes bringing credit to Sri Lanka through their achievements. Therefore it is appropriate to say that it is a good investment for the future progress of Sri Lanka. It is an excellent opportunity for financially deprived athletes of this country to enhance and develop their Sporting abilities. We also intend to lend a helping hand to uplift other sports such as Carom, Netball and football. After a lapse of 10 year we staged the CEB sports meet the other day where the administrators and the minor staff participated in the events without any discrimination. By recruiting these National Level Athletes we hope to enhance the sporting abilities of the employees of the CEB as well.
Addressing the gathering Chairman of CEB Widya Amarapala stated that by inculcating the practice of Exercising, we could build a physically and mentally healthy society. While letters of appointment were handed over to athletes Rohan Predeep Kumara, Prasanna Peiris, Shehan Ambepitiya, Chandrika Subashini RatnayakeUditha Gayan Wickremasinghe and Dhanushka Naleen Karunaratne they also addressed the gathering together with Coach Sunil Gunawardane. Sunil Gunawardane further commended the CEB for taking the innetiative to assist these National athletes and expressed faith that more organizations will follow their example.
