http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=3227

26 Sep

Since the appropriate forview of HE the President Mahinda Rajapaksa, there has been an enormous progress in the Local Engineering field ..

I consider its an honour to speak few words at such an important event of engineering profession and I would like to convey my gratitude to the Institute of engineers of Sri Lanka for inviting me.
In attending this event I was reminded of some of engineering wonders of our civilization From the mysterious water system of Sigiriya.. Bisokotuwa  the irrigation system that has been unmatched even today Highly sophisticated irrigation system that paved for a civilization based on constructed tank and a canal system To the Eng Kulasinghes concrete systems, Eng Vimalsurendras hydro power projects . In fact recite the story of the progression of our civilization..
Even though Influenced by the modern engineering technology we as a nation inherits a highly developed engineering tradition that existed for centuries. These achievements were always entangled with the other aspects of the society. The stability of socio political-economical and cultural systems of the country is directly aligned with the progression and wonders of the engineers inventions.
Today we are gathered here for this engineering excellence award ceremony as a nation in a peaceful context that could nurture for wonders in engineering or any other profession for that matter. If we run our memories back to four year and beyondOur mind sets were not set for doing wonders but rather the challenge was to protect whatever the wonders that our engineers have achieved for so long
Power generation stations were high security zones , Dams were protected by armed forces.. Bridges were guarded by security posts Every transformer was guarded by a policeman Water pipes became protected elements
Every government had a higher priority in securing the engineering work rather than creating a conducive environment for its progression But today the scenario has changed.. The strong leadership of His Excellency the president Mahinda Rajapaksa has changed all that he swept away the terrorism from the face of the country
and did not stopped from there  then the government launched a rapid redevelopment programme that encouraged development in many sectors including construction, power & energy, textile , tea, export industries, and tourism among many others.
In this background the engineers role became significant within the national development. The demand for engineering inputs increased and government also recognised the valuable contribution by engineers in development by providing a special allowance for all state employed engineers. I also consider its a remarkable situation that Minister of Economic Development Hon. Basil Rajapaksa being present on this occasion today. who was the pioneer in driving the redevelopment programme after achieving long awaited peace.
Within this setting I perceive this award ceremony to felicitate the achievements in engineering profession as an integral component of this whole development process. I strongly believe that events of this nature could assist in making more contributions to the nation building.
I would conclude my brief words by congratulating all who are being appreciated for their hard work and encouraging others also to work even harder to reach that level in coming years
