http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=3546

09 Apr

Lets make our motherland a super power

The main challenge ahead of us is to build a nation that is rich and self-sufficient in energy. The next challenge is to move towards sustainable energy sources without depending on coal and other fossil fuels. We have to face this challenge in the near future and we must prepare our country to take forward the local green energy initiatives. Necessary plans had been prepared to face these great challenges. We were able to start the initial step today, from this historic city of Kotte. All these efforts had been made towards building a strong economy for the nation. With the success of these initiatives and with the development of new technology, well be able to make our motherland a country of skillful, smooth, super power said Mr. Patali Champika Ranawaka, the Minister of Power and Energy.
He expressed his views when participating in an inaugural ceremony for establishing a Green Zone at a selected area of Sri Jayewardenepura to promote conservation and efficient use energy at Solis reception hall Pitakotte.
He further stated that Today for Tomorrow program will be re-implemented. If we will be able to save 5% of electricity, it enables us to control the expensive thermal power stations. This great cost savings would directly affect our customers as well as the national economy.
Our ministry is the highest tax payer to the government other than the Ministry of finance, department of Inland Revenue and the Customs. Our institution does not make losses. The losses incur as we are paying huge taxes to the government. We are hoping to set a pricing formula for CEB and Ceylon Petroleum Corporation. Further, we are expecting to implement a service with quality by empowering our customers. A method will be introduced to find the details of electricity and fuel bills through a mobile phone or a computer.
Our ultimate goal is to make the country self-sufficient with energy by 2025.The green energy as well as oil and gas resources in the north- western coast are expected to be used in this regard. In the future Sri Lanka has to fully utilize its oil and gas resources for the benefit of the country. They must develop as national treasures without allowing a single person, a family, a company, or exploiters to rob these national treasures. It is a very difficult challenge minister further added.
Dr. Harsha de Silva, the Deputy Minister of Policy Planning and Economic Affairs, Mr. Bandula Chandrasekara Chairman of the Sri Lanka Electricity Company and senior officials of the ministry of power and energy, Lanka Electricity Company Ltd. were also present at the occasion.









								
