http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=4402

05 Jun

Uninterrupted high quality electricity supply at a lowest price

Electricity to Meemure
Now we are inclined towards renewable power sources which have the lowest cost to generate electricity. Early days the common people even couldnt imagine on building power plants on their own. Either government or companies could only build such power plants. But today, any person who is interested can build power plants and also they are able to supply the generated electricity to the national grid. We had set up new rules by the electricity board enabling to face the new challenge. Accordingly, any person who is generating electricity less than 2MW can supply it to CEB at a fair price. If generating between 2-5MW, CEB will purchase them as required by the grid. If produced more than 5MW, CEB will purchase it at a competitive price. We are purchasing electricity in the future from the companies at competitive rates in the international market. This would enable the people in the country to get electricity at a minimal cost.
Earlier there had been more than 500,000 children who were using Kerosene lamps for studying. Now we are facilitating these children to study using the electricity. As the minister of power, my main intention is to provide uninterrupted and quality electricity to the people of the country without any discrimination. emphasized Mr. Ranjith Siyambalapitiya the minister of power and renewable energy.The minister expressed his ideas participating at the occasion of completing 100% of electrification in the Meemure area of the Kandy District.Minister Siyambalapitiya further said,
Now the national grid had reached even to the most remote villages. The CEB is always thinking about the needs of the people and act in a radical manner. In early days if the costs of distribution to the households are very high, the CEB only reached to the boundary of the village and ask the villages to get the electricity to their homes by their own cost if they are needed. But now we are providing electricity to the doorstep of the potential customers. More than that, we are giving money for them to wire the houses and to get the connection. At present, electricity is an essential infrastructure requirement that we needed and also it had become a very sensitive infrastructure. Today, people cannot live even for a few minutes without electricity. Now the CEB had come forwarded to spend about Rs. 300,000 for each new connection and we have introduced a radical change to the electricity generation. he said.
Chief minister of North-Western province Mr.Sarath Ekanayake, Chief UNP organizer of Ududumbara, Mr. Chanaka Iyelapperuma, Provincial council MP of Sabaragamuwa Mr. Harsha Siyambalapitiya, Secretary to the ministry of power and renewable energy, Dr. B.M.S.Batagoda, General Manager of Ceylon Electricity Board Mr. M.C.Wicramasekara and Senior officials of CEB participated the occasion.
