http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=4444

28 Jul

The coal deal was done with transparency

In some places the coal deal had been exaggerated as a huge loss for the country. This is simply a wrong argument. And also they mentioned about an audit inquiry. Finally the secretary to the ministry had sent two answers regarding the audit inquiry. In the court nullified the case and presented important recommendations. Accordance with those recommendations, along with the instructions of the Attorney General, we are ready to implement that decision. At the same time there is a doubt that whether the tender procedure suits today. We are now updating the procedure. Finally we have appointed a committee of three. The message we have to communicate to the country is that no any loss to the country from this coal deal. emphasized Mr. Ranjith Siyambalapitiya the minister of power and renewable energy.
Minister Siyambalapitiya said that in a press conference was held at the ministry of power and renewable energy to explain the situation of the coal purchasing process of the Norochcholai coal power plant belongs to the Ceylon Electricity Board.
Minister Siyambalapitiya further said,
I have forwarded all the true facts for the Parliament very clearly. To generate 900 MW Lakwijaya Power Station it is needed to have 2.2 Million Metric tons of coal annually. It has to be transported during a six-month period from September to April to avoid rough seas. It is an activity to be done with highest responsibility. The first tender floated in 2009 had one bidder. From 2009 up to 2015 only one company was awarded the tender. They had become the supplier by a committee on appeals or cabinet decisions. But there were many matters came up during these 05 years. We made Rs. Billions of losses due to their irregular and inefficient coal supply.
We called tenders in 2015.There were 8 bidders at the beginning and 4 tenders were rejected at the first round. But the tender board needed to create a tough competition by getting more participation. Therefore the rejected groups had been get the participation with the cabinet approval. The objective was to create the best competition and to remove the monopoly in coal supply. I was not the subject minister during this period. Then the tender board received complains that the specifications are unfair. The most important thing was the quantity. The quantity factor is not consider in pricing as an
