http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=4697

06 Sep

I am a minister from Sri Lanka Freedom Party. My Deputy is a main active supporter of United National Party. But this difference is not a barrier at all for our journey..

Yesterday, I went in blue in color and participated for many hours in a huge rally organized for party conference. Today being at this point, we will open a factory which is needed to Ceylon Electricity Board and as well as to the nation. Is there any problem or wrong? This is what we need for a developing country where the people who wish to stand on their own legs and go for a progress are available. How many decades, we have been boasting that our country is developing. We should bring this country to the position where it can be said that our country has developed. It is the aim which should be in us. Later, we can do politics. We need a politics for us. We must be independent. We must love our party. We ought to protect our party. Above for all, we should think a moment about the people of our country and our next generation. I am a minister from Sri Lanka Freedom Party. My Deputy is a main active supporter of United National Party. But this difference is not a barrier at all for our journey the minister said.
Minister added this, today (04*) while participating at the opening ceremony of meter cover manufacturing factory constructed in Galigamuwa Industrial Park organized in order to mark the 2
This factory which was started with 150 millions of investments has brought a lot of job opportunities to many youths of the area.
This factory was constructed by Sri Lanka Energies which is fully affiliated with Ceylon Electricity Board. This factory has a capacity to produce output of 100 of meter boxes per hour. Through this factory having modern machineries and equipment, it is expected to manufacture meter boxes which suit to the demands locally and internationally placed.
Secretary to the Ministry of Power and Renewable Energy Dr. Suren Battagoda, Ceylon Electricity Board Chairman W.B. Ganegala, Member of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and Government Party Chief Organizer Hon. Harsha Siyambalapitiya, Provincial Council Opposition Leader W.A. Somadasa and many others were participated in this event.
