http://powermin.gov.lk/english/?p=4934

09 Apr

By 2020, in this country 30% of electricity will be generated from renewable energy By 2030, this should be increased up to 50%.  People and investors should join in wind power initiatives

Today, we nationally inaugurated the wind power initiative. What we now doing is what we had to do many decades ago, and that is why we are naming national tasks what we start as Sangramaya, initiative etc. As the time has lapsed, we have to get together and undertake these things based on Sangramaya rapidly. Now, attention has been turned on renewable energy generation in Sri Lanka. Water, solar and wind can be mentioned as major source which are used for this purpose. Today, we have used water at maximum level to generate electricity. Practice of generating electricity form solar power is rapidly spreading throughout the Island, and in the meantime, we have started this wind power initiative. Generating 30% of electricity from renewable energy in Sri Lanka by 2020 is our target. We have to increase that level up to 50% by 2030. Therefore, I hope this wind power initiative would be supported at large said Hon. Ranjith Siyambalapitiya, the Minister of Power and Renewable Energy.
The Minister said this while he was attending the national inauguration of Wind Power Park at Berakanda of Ambantota.
The Minister, Ranjith Siyambalapitiya in his further view expressed..,
Our country is an Island. As our country is covered by seas, plenty of wind is available for us. From today, people can make their contribution towards wind power generation under the same conditions of Sooriyabala Sangramaya. We are inviting the public to take part in this task much. We will encourage our manufacturers to produce necessary turbines within this country. Another feature is the one that the Berakanda Solar Park existed so far is going to change as a renewable energy park from today onwards. This can be made as a knowledge developing and research park for our children and elders the Minister said.
Senior officials from the Ministry of Power and Renewable Energy, Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority and Ceylon Electricity Board including many people of the area participated in this event.
